[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
rachel burden and
charlie state and here are the headlines
today everyone over 50
should have been offered a coronavirus
vaccine by may but scientists warn
against easing lockdown too soon
one man has died and 10 people have been
wounded in a string of stabbings in
croydon in south london
small businesses are given more time to
repay government loans taken out to help
survive the coronavirus lockdown
good morning it is the return of the six
nations and with no fans at twickenham
today
scotland might fancy beating england
there for the first time in decades
before that though italy hosts france
good morning this weekend is going to
see the weather turning colder
right the way across the uk and for some
scenes like these will be possible heavy
snow maybe even
blizzards not for all stay tuned i'll
have all the details for you coming up
you have no authority here jackie weaver
no authority
at all and how a parish council
meeting set the internet to light we'll
hear from
the jackie weaver just before 9.
[Music]
looking forward to that one good morning
it's saturday the 6th of february thank
you for joining us this morning our top
story today scientists are warning
against easing lockdown measures too
quickly
despite the progression of the
coronavirus vaccination programme
the government says all adults over the
age of 50 should be offered a jab
by may and with infection rates falling
the prime minister is under pressure to
set
a road map for lifting restrictions rare
barton has more
nearly 11 million people have been given
their first
jab the government's increasingly
confident it will hit its target of
offering vaccines to the over 70s
all frontline health workers and the
clinically extremely vulnerable by the
middle of this month
so now it's looking further ahead my
goal is that i want us to be able to
offer
a vaccine to all over 50s that's
priority groups one to nine
by may there's a lot of things that
we've got to get right
in order to hit that goal and obviously
supply is the most difficult of all of
those
but we're currently on track for that
just over 10 million 971
000 people have now received their first
dose of a vaccine
19 114 new cases of coronavirus were
reported in the latest 24-hour period
with a further 1014 deaths within 28
days of a positive test
the prime minister says as a vaccination
program intensifies
he'll set out a roadmap later this month
for easing lockdown restrictions
but he's warned these are early days and
infection rates are still very high
scientists too are urging caution i
totally understand that we want to try
to get back to normal but the real
danger is if we relax too rapidly we'll
get a resurgence and we'll end up
going into another lockdown so we really
need to ease out of this
very carefully so that we don't lose the
gains we get from vaccination
by allowing people to mix more rapidly
and spreading the virus more
you might get a sore arm for a couple of
days in a further boost for the
vaccination program
the uk's drug regulator says any side
effects are mostly mild
my wife said to us already and she just
had a 24-hour soreness but that's all
and she's perfectly okay afterwards so
i'm not concerned
no it doesn't hurt and i feel so
secure now the government says it wants
to vaccinate
32 million people by may but it's more
reluctant to say when it thinks life
will be back to some sort of normality
rhea barton
bbc news one man has died and 10 others
have been injured after a series of
stabbings in south london overnight
police are currently investigating
whether the incidents are linked
let's find out more with simon jones
who's in croydon for us this morning
just take us through the sequence of
events
well the police were called to this
block of flats just after eight o'clock
yesterday evening
following reports that two men had been
stabbed
now one of the men was taken to hospital
but despite the efforts of paramedics a
second man died here at the scene
now this was one of five incidents
police were called to in this area in
the space of a little more than two
hours
yesterday evening let's just talk you
through exactly what happened the first
incident
was at 6 56 at chapman road one man was
found with stab injuries
then only around 20 minutes later at 7
15 in a south london hospital four men
were receiving
treatment for stab wounds then at eight
minutes past
eight there was the incident here that
led to one man losing his life
then at 8 51 again at a south london
hospital
two men arrived there they are being
treated for stab wounds and then the
final incident
at 9 12 in dingwall road one man found
with stab
injuries now two of the people who were
stabbed
are in a life-threatening condition and
two people
have been arrested now the police are
saying at this time there's nothing
concrete to definitely link these
incidents but that will be a major part
of the investigation
now officers have described these
incidents as
grim they say that violence like this
will not be tolerated and
extra officers were put onto the streets
last night to act as a deterrent for
any further violence breaking out sam
thank you very much
businesses that received bounce-back
loans from the government during the
pandemic are to be given more time
to repay them they'll now have up to ten
years rather than six to pay back the
money our business correspondent katie
prescott
has more on this give us some of the
details then katie well these were the
loans that were given to businesses to
try and get the money
really quickly and cheaply at a crunch
point during the pandemic last may so
they could access loans of up to 50 000
pounds from their bank
guaranteed by the government with
nothing to pay for 12 months
so that was last may now we're coming up
to may and these loans are falling due
and this change today really is a
reflection that perhaps businesses just
won't be able to pay their money back
there is a lot of concern from the banks
and the government about that
a recent report by a watchdog found that
two-thirds of these loans
might not be able to be repaid well
there are some this morning saying
this change is really kicking the can
down the road but i think as we come up
to the budget in march we may well see
more of these changes to government
support schemes really reflecting just
how hard the economy's been hit
and how long the pandemic's been going
on katie thank you very much
president biden has said he doesn't
think donald trump should have access to
intelligence briefings
courtesy usually offered to former
presidents mr biden
told cbs news mr trump should be
excluded for his
erratic behavior should former president
trump
still receive intelligence briefings
i think not why not
because of his radical behavior
unrelated to
the insurrection i mean you've called
him an existential threat
you've called him dangerous you've
called him reckless yeah i have
and i believe it what's your worst fear
if he continues to get these
intelligence briefings
what value is giving him an intelligence
briefing what impact does he have at all
other than the fact
he might slip and say something the
children's commissioner for england says
councils are failing to prevent
vulnerable children in their care being
exploited
by and hurt by gangs and longfield says
that once
children are entangled in dangerous
enterprises it becomes difficult to
intervene and reach them the local
government association defended public
health teams saying tackling the issue
requires close working
across a number of agencies and we'll
talk to anne longfield
in a couple of minutes time police
investigating two fatal attacks in
kilmarnock say they're not
looking for anyone else after a 40 year
old man died in a road crash
south of the town on thursday night our
scotland reporter alexandra mackenzie is
in kilmarnock for us just bring us some
of the reaction you've had there
alexandra
yeah well people in the town of komarnak
and here at the hospital
are shocked and saddened by what
happened we now know that 39 year old
emma robertson
copeland suffered serious injuries just
in the car park
behind us she was an nhs worker here at
the hospital she was treated
by her colleagues but died here at the
scene then a short time later her
daughter
24 year old nicole anderson was stabbed
just
two miles from here she was brought to
the hospital where her mother
had worked and died she was treated here
for her injuries but then she also
later died and 40 year old stephen
robertson
died in a car crash on the outskirts of
kilmarnock all three of these incidents
happened
within a time frame of 45 minutes
now the hospital here has also paid
tribute to the staff
who were working that night they said
they acted with care and
compassion in a challenging situation
thank you very much alexandra
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news